AMSLouisville2013
=================
This repository contains talks presented at the AMS Special Session on Finite Universal Algebra at the AMS Southeastern Sectional Meeting, October 5--6, 2013, at University of Louisville.


Program
=======
Special Session on Finite Universal Algebra, II

Room 215, Bingham Humanities

Organizers: 

**Ralph McKenzie**,  Vanderbilt University

**Matthew Valeriote**,  McMaster University


Saturday October 5, 2013
------------------------
1.  8:00 a.m. *Permutability of abelian congruences in finitely decidable varieties.* 
    
    **Matthew Smedberg**, Vanderbilt University 

2.  8:30 a.m. *Residually finite varieties.* 

    **Keith A Kearnes**, University of Colorado

3.  9:00 a.m. *Varieties with a difference term and Park's conjecture.* 

    **Keith Kearnes**, University of Colorado

    **Agnes Szendrei**, University of Colorado

    **Ross Willard**, University of Waterloo

4.  9:30 a.m. *How to decide absorption.* 

    **Alexandr Kazda**, Vanderbilt University

5.  10:00 a.m. *Finiteness properties of direct products.*

    **Peter Mayr**, Johannes Kepler University Linz

    **Nik Ruskuc**, University of St Andrews

6.  10:30 a.m. *Dualizable algebras.*

    **Agnes Szendrei**, University of Colorado at Boulder

    **Keith A. Kearnes**, University of Colorado at Boulder

7.  3:00 p.m. *Finite group properties deducible from local subgroup lattice structure.*

    **William DeMeo**, University of South Carolina

8.  3:30 p.m. *Maltsev products of congruence permutable varieties.*

    **Ralph S Freese**, University of Hawaii

    **Ralph N McKenzie**, Vanderbilt University

9.  4:00 p.m. *A Syntactic Approach to Linear Idempotent Mal'cev Conditions.*

    **Jonah Horowitz**, Ryerson University

10. 4:30 p.m. *Space complexity of list H-coloring: a dichotomy.* 

    **L. Egri**,  Institute for Computer Science and Control, Hungarian Academy of Sciences

    **P. Hell**,  School of Computer Science, Simon Fraser University

    **B. Larose**,  Department of Mathematics and Statistics, Concordia University 

    **A. Rafiey**,  School of Computer Science, Simon Fraser University 

10. 5:00 p.m. *Polymorphisms of Binary Treelike Structures.* 

    **Dejan Delic**,  Ryerson University, Toronto

10. 5:30 p.m. *Finite Taylor algebras, Pointing Terms, and Cubed Elements.* 

    **Alexander Wires**,  University of Waterloo


Sunday October 6, 2013
----------------------
1. 8:00 a.m. *Reflexive Relations on Lattices.* 

    **John W. Snow**,  Concordia University, Nebraska 

    **Kalle Kaarli**,  University of Tartu, Estonia

10. 8:30 a.m. *Maltsev Conditions on the Feder-Vardi Reduction to Bipartite Graphs with Constants.* 

    **Ian Payne**,  University of Waterloo

    **Ross Willard**,  University of Waterloo

10. 9:00 a.m. *The Variety Generated by $\mathbb{A}(\mathcal{T})$ -- Two Counterexamples.* 

    **Matthew D Moore**,  Vanderbilt University

10. 9:30 a.m. *Finite Monk algebras and equational bases defining RRA over wRRA.* 

    **Jeremy F Alm**,  Illinois College

    **Robin Hirsch**,  University College London

    **Jacob Manske**,  Epic Systems Corporation

10. 10:00 a.m. *Spectra in sub-signatures of RA.* 

    **Andrew J Ylvisaker**,  Monmouth College

10. 10:30 a.m. *Epimorphisms in certain varieties of partially ordered semigroups.* 

    **Nasir Sohail**,  University of Tartu, Estonia; University of Waterloo, Canada

10. 3:00 p.m. *An orderly algorithm to enumerate (semi)modular lattices.* 

    **Peter Jipsen**,  Chapman University

    **Nathan Lawless**,  Chapman University

10. 3:30 p.m. *The order of principal congruences of a bounded lattice.* 

    **George Gratzer**,  University of Manitoba

10. 4:00 p.m. *The Computational Complexity of the Minimal Variety Problem.* 

    **George F McNulty**,  University of South Carolina

10. 4:30 p.m. *Algebraic Terms through Simulated Evolution.* 

    **David M. Clark**,  SUNY New Paltz
